Add project start guide (#338)
SpineEventEngine/SpineEventEngine.github.io: docs/guides/start-new-project.md

---
title: Starting a new project
headline: Documentation
bodyclass: docs
layout: docs
---

# Starting a new project

> <p class="lead">Identifying a particular development flow may be challenging at times. 
> Making the flow efficient and straight-forward is even harder. This guide will walk you through 
> the way we tend to start and develop new projects.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="lead">Starting off a new project goes smoother when you have an efficient and straightforward development flow to rely on. In this guide, we describe how we usually start and develop new projects</p>
```

> While the development process is described in the [Introduction][introduction] section, 
> in this guide we want to cover the steps that we follow while working on a project in more detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the key stages of the development process are described in the [Introduction][introduction] section, this guide provides more hands-on details on the steps that we follow while working on a project.
```

### Identifiers

We put this step aside because in [Reactive DDD][ReactiveDDD] entities reference each other using 
the typed [identifiers][identifier-concept].

<p class="note">Consider following the [Vaughn Vernon][VaughnVernon]’s rule on Aggregates from 
the “Effective Aggregate Design Part II” that is applicable to **any** entity: 
<i>“Reference other Aggregates by Identity”</i></p>

We recommend using message-based identifiers over simple types to make the API strongly pronounced 
and type-safe. To make things obvious, consider putting the IDs of the context into the file named 
[`identifiers.proto`][identifiers-proto]. This file will be imported when defining events, 
commands, entity states, and other types of the selected context.

<p class="note">Please consult with the Naming Conventions [guide][identifiers-naming] for our 
recommendations on naming the identifier types.</p>

When the ID types are defined, please create a Pull Request so that the team can review 
and polish the code of this important development step.

### Events

When the IDs are defined it’s time to define [event][event-concept] messages. The events are named 

> as facts formulated as past participles. They are defined in files with the 

Author: Done.

the business logic the same way it works in the application.

<!-- //TODO:2020-07-20:yuri-sergiichuk: add links to the BBC examples/guides.
 See https://github.com/SpineEventEngine/SpineEventEngine.github.io/issues/339.
 -->

All the code must conform to the defined standards of the code and documentation quality 
as well as be tested thoroughly.

When a backend for the scenario is done a new PR is created and reviewed.

### Fulfilling the vertical

We usually do the vertical development, meaning an engineer starts with the domain definition, 
continues with its implementation, and finishes with the front-facing tasks.

Depending on your team workflow and preferences this step can take place in parallel 
with the previous one.

As noted, the scope of this iteration is to prepare the front-facing part for the scenario: 
either a UI if one is needed, or the public API, or a dedicated idiomatic client.

As soon as the implementation is ready, another PR and review come along.

## Start over again

When the scenario is finished, pick up a new one and start it over again following the PR 
and review process.

> As soon as the Bounded Context is fulfilled the team can continue with the next one.

Author: I don't think it's a good idea to reference the steps here as they are pretty far from this sentence.
